In the past, radio was primarily broadcast over FM or AM bands. Radio has, since its inception, has played an integral role in the lives of its listeners. Even the invention of a more comprehensive electronic media device such as the television did not hamper the extended use of radio in the day-to-day lives of consumers.
With the development of the Internet as a medium for communication and mass sharing of content, most services that are used by humans today were moved online to achieve better market penetration and more efficient delivery. Radio was one such service which was moved to the online space at the beginning of the 1990s.
Nowadays, most Web users have gotten accustomed to listening to Internet Radio stations according to their preference[1](1.md). Many types of Internet Radio stations are available, which play different types of music ranging from Classical to Rock. However, there are many shortcomings in Internet Radio stations which are currently available online, and it is evident that these problems are caused by lack of technology[1](1.md). This has led towards Internet Radio feeling less like conventional radio stations, which has led to a smaller user base than one would expect from such an innovative technological feature.
It would be beneficial for the future of Internet Radio as a technology if it were to gain functionality which would make it closer to the user, while maintaining its current level of automation.
IntelliRadio aims to solve the above problems through the effective integration of newer Web Technologies to Internet Radio.